# Design Description

This description document explains the design flow in the given class diagram in line with the Assignment5 document requirements and specifications. The design (**design.pdf**) and this description is the collaborative effort of the members of **Team 121**. This design embodies the ideas, concepts the design flow from each of the individual submissions of the team members for Assignment5. In this document, the requirements as stated in the Assignment5 document will be listed and the for each requirment listed, an explanation will be given as to how it is met in the UML Class diagram (**design.pdf**) or, where applicable, why it does not directly affect the design and is therefore not shown in the class diagram or met by the class diagram.


> 1. When the app is started, the user is presented with the main menu, which allows the user to (1) enter current job details, (2) enter job offers, (3) adjust the comparison, settings, or (4) compare job offers (disabled if no job offers were entered yet 1).

This requirement listed above is met in the class diagram. In the class diagram, we see a **MainMenu** class which the user starts with.

The **MainMenu** class, representing the main menu in the requirements document, consists of several methods which invoke the subclasses in the app. The methods and the classes invoked, as shown in the class diagram, are as follows:
1. **ViewJob()** method which implements the **Job** class. This class would store both  job offers and current job information.
2. **ViewComparisionSettings()** method which implements the **comparisonSettings** class.
3. **ViewJobOfferComparison()** method which implements the **JobComparison** class.

> To be precise, this functionality will be enabled if there are either (1) at least two job offers, in case there is no current job, or (2) at least one job offer, in case there is a current job.

The requirement shown above, which appears as a footnote, and which is linked to the first main menu requirement shown above, cannot be implemented in the class diagram for this assignment. This is because the class diagram principally shows classes containing data objects and methods (method calls). The implementation of the requirement above will involve constructs, the complexity of which cannot be represented in this class diagram.


> 2. When choosing to ​enter current job details, a user will: a. Be shown a user interface to enter (if it is the first time) or edit all of the details of their current job, which consist of: i. Title ii. Company iii. Location (entered as city and state) iv. Overall cost of living in the location (expressed as an index​ ) v. Commute time (round-trip and measured in hours or fraction thereof) vi. Yearly salary vii. Yearly bonus viii. Retirement benefits (as percentage matched) ix. Leave time (vacation days and holiday and/or sick leave, as a single overall number of days) b. Be able to either save the job details or cancel and exit without saving, returning in both cases to the main menu.

This requirement listed above is met in the class diagram. In the class diagram, the **MainMenu** class implements or calls the **Job** class through the **ViewJob** method. In the invoked **Job** class, the **JobDetails** class is called through the **createNewJob()** method from which the user can enter details for a (new) job. In the **JobDetails** class, the user enters input for **title** (a String input), **company** (a String input), **location** (a String input), **costOfLiving** (an integer input to match with the index expression to represent the Overall Living Cost, as shown in the requirement), **commuteTime** (a BigInteger input, or simply put, an integer input. For the fact that integer weights were given to Commute time as shown in a requirement below for comparison settings, and for uniformity, integer input type is used ), **yearlySalary** (an integer input), **yearlyBonus** (an integer input), **retirementBenefits** (an integer input), and **leaveTime** (an integer input, as whole number of days are required as shown in the requirements document).

The **currentJob** object in the **Job** class is initialized when a **current job** is entered, as there can only be one current job. 

The requirements of the app to be able to either save job details entered is implemented by the **saveJob()** method. The requirement of the app to cancel and exit without saving is implemented by the **exit()** method which exits the **Job** class to the **MainMenu** class.


> 3. When choosing to enter job offers, a user will: a. Be shown a user interface to enter all of the details of the offer, which are the same ones listed above for the current job. b. Be able to either save the job offer details or cancel. c. Be able to (1) enter another offer, (2) return to the main menu, or (3) compare the offer with the current job details (if present).

The requirements listed above are met in the class diagram in this assignment. When the user chooses to enter job offers from the main menu (or **MainMenu** class as shown in the class diagram), the **Job** class is invoked which in turn invokes the **JobDetails** class through the **createNewJob()** method. In the invoked **JobDetails** class, the user is presented with an interface to enter the details of the job offer namely **title**, **company**, **location**, **costOfLiving**, **commuteTime**, **yearlySalary**, **yearlyBonus**, **retirementBenefits** and **leaveTime** (represented as data objects similar to the requirements for entering the current job above as shown above with corresponding String and integer input types). These user inputs are held in a **jobOfferArray[]** which handles a specific job offer. Subsequent job offers entered are held in new iterations of the **jobOfferArray[]**. The **createNewJob()** method in the **Job** class enables the user to enter the details of another job offer which is entered into a new iteration of the **jobOfferArray[]**. As job offers are entered, the **currentNumJobOffers** objects is incremented accordingly. The **compareJob(Title, company)** method is used to compare a job offer with the current job, using **title** and **company** as identifiers. In the **Job** class, a boolean value tests whether the user is a first time user using the boolean object **firstTimeUser**. When the offer details have been entered, the user may save the job offer details through the **saveJob()** method shown in the class diagram. The users uses the **exit()** method to return to the main menu (**MainMenu** class) as specified in the requirements document.


> 4. When ​adjusting the comparison settings, ​the user can assign integer ​weights ​to: a. Commute time b. Yearly salary c. Yearly bonus d. Retirement benefits e. Leave time If no weights are assigned, all factors are considered equal.

These requirements listed above are met in the class diagram. The user can adjust the comparison settings from the **MainMenu** class when the **ComparisonSettings** class is called by through the **ViewJobOfferComparison()** method as shown in the class diagram. In the called **ComparisonSettings** class, the user enters integer values for **CommuteTime**, **Salary**, **Benefits**, **LeaveTime** and **Bonus** as shown in the class diagram. These integer objects have weights initialized to 1, as show in the class diagram. The requirement for factors being considered equal if no weights are assigned cannot be represented sufficiently in this class diagram. When the weights have been modified, the **updateComparisonSettings** method saves and updates the object weights.


> 5. When choosing to ​ compare job offers, a user will: a. Be shown a list of job offers, displayed as Title and Company, ranked from best to worst (see below for details), and including the current job (if present), clearly indicated. b. Select two jobs to compare and trigger the comparison. c. Be shown a table comparing the two jobs, displaying, for each job: i. Title ii. Company iii. Location iv. Commute time v. Yearly salary adjusted for cost of living vi. Yearly bonus adjusted for cost of living vii. Retirement benefits (as percentage matched) viii. Leave time d. Be offered to perform another comparison or go back to the main menu.

These requirements listed above have been met in the class diagram. The user may choose to compare job offers or rank job offers from the main menu through the **ViewJobOfferComparison()** method. This causes the **JobComparison** class to be invoked. The job offers shown, which are to be compared or ranked, are called from the **getAllJobOffers()** method. In order to rank the job offers from best to worst as specified in the requirement document, the **jobScoreCalculation()** method is called which takes integer objects **AYS**, **AYB**, **RBP** and **LT** as arguments. The computed job score is computed as the weighted sum of the attributes shown in the requirements document and this weight value is stored in the **jobScore** object as a double value. 
To trigger the comparison of jobs (job offers), the **triggerJobComparison()** method invokes the **getJobOfferComparisonList1(Title, company)** and **getJobOfferComparisonList1(Title, company)** methods which select two jobs (say job1 and job2) as job array objects (**jobArray1[]** and **jobArray2[]** respectively. These array objects are obtained from the **jobOfferArray[]** in the **Job** class which uses the **JobDetails** class as a constructor. For each of job array object (**jobArray1[]** and **jobArray2[]**), the following attributes are displayed - **title**, **company**, **location**, **commuteTime**, **yearlySalary**, **yearlyBonus**, **retirementBenefits** and **leaveTime**. At this point the user may chose to make another comparison. If this is the case, the **triggerJobComparison()** method is called again. If the user does not want to make new comparisons, the user may go back to the main menu.


> 6. When ranking jobs, a job’s score is computed as the ​ weighted​ sum of: AYS + AYB + (RBP * AYS) + (LT * AYS / 260) - (CT * AYS / 8) where: AYS = yearly salary adjusted for cost of living AYB = yearly bonus adjusted for cost of living RBP = retirement benefits percentage LT = leave time CT = commute time The rationale for the CT subformula is: a. value of an employee hour = (AYS / 260) / 8 b. commute hours per year = CT * 260 c. therefore ​commute-time cost =​ CT * 260 * (AYS / 260) / 8 = ​CT * AYS / 8For example, if the weights are 2 for the yearly salary, 2 for the retirement benefits, and 1 for all other factors, the score would be computed as: 2/7 * AYS + 1/7 * AYB + 2/7 * (RBP * AYS) + 1/7 * (LT * AYS / 260) - 1/7 (CT * AYS / 8)

The requirements shown by the above equation and expressions have been met in part in the class diagram. As it is not feasible to represent the full equation in our class diagram, the **weighted sum** (as specified above) which is the resulting job score after the jobs have been ranked is displayed in the **JobComparison** class as **jobScore**, a double object. The actual calculation of the weighted sum is carried out by the **jobScoreCalculation()** method in the **JobComparison** class which takes in **yearlySalary**, **yearlyBonus**, **retirementBenefits**, **leaveTime** and **commuteTime** as arguments.


> 7. The user interface must be intuitive and responsive.

> 8. The performance of the app should be such that users do not experience any considerable lag between their actions and the response of the app.

> 9. For simplicity, you may assume there is a ​single system running the app.

The requirements 7, 8 and 9 above are not represented in the UML class diagram in this assignment as these are implementation details.

In addition, the class diagram shows the relationship between the classes. The **JobDetails**, **Job**, **comparisonSettings** and **JobComparison** classes are in the main (**MainMenu**) class. The main class has a **1-to-1 relationship** with the **Job** class and the **comparisonSettings** class. The main class has a **1-to-many relationship** with the **JobComparison** class. The **Job** class uses the **JobComparison** class and has a **1-to-many relationship** with it. The **Job** and **JobDetails** classes have an **aggregation** and **1-to-1** relationship. 


